Big Data & Analytics - Thinks and Links

**Happy Friday!**

Conversations about Data and AI this week included a lot of discussion
about getting Enterprise AI programs off the ground. Investors and
boards are asking about it, and people in all business functions are
grappling with the questions of how AI can impact the business. The
benefits that investors expect from AI will not come simply from email
autocomplete and better chatbots. We’ve been looking at studies that
speak to the [significant value delivered with
AI](https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/companies-are-making-serious-money-with-ai/)
which is [only possible when significant
investment](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0166497222001377)s
in capabilities has been made.

It is also clear that regulatory and operational risks are only going to
increase from here. State, Country, and Continental government bodies
are all putting forth potential regulation and laws that could impact
how firms work with AI. [Legal
challenges](https://musically.com/2023/06/05/stability-ai-faces-another-getty-images-legal-action-in-uk/)
to firms using Generative AI have already started and are likely to
increase.

All this opportunity and risk translates to a clear need for Strategy,
Governance, and Execution around Data and AI. Enterprises need to have a
plan. Leading organizations are drafting AI Policies, governance
processes, staffing plans, and technology infrastructure to be ready for
the surge in demand for AI capabilities and associated risk. Here are
some steps every organization should be considering:

1.  **Understand AI:** Begin by gaining a comprehensive understanding of
    AI, specifically generative models, and their implications for your
    business. This includes grasping potential benefits, risks, and the
    ways these models are beginning to be incorporated into the
    technology stack.

2.  **Assess Current Capabilities:** Review your existing technological
    infrastructure and skills base. Identify gaps that could hinder AI
    implementation or lead to enhanced risks to develop a strategy to
    address them.

3.  **Develop AI Policies:** Establish clear enterprise AI policies that
    define guidelines for its usage and protection within your
    organization. These guidelines should cover topics like approved use
    cases, ethics, data handling, privacy, legality, and regulatory
    impacts of AI-generated content.

4.  **Establish Governance Processes:** Create governance processes to
    oversee AI deployment and ensure compliance with internal policies
    and external regulations.

5.  **Plan Resource Allocation:** Consider staffing and resourcing plans
    to support AI integration. This may include hiring AI specialists,
    engaging with consulting firms, developing staff training, or
    investing in new technology.

6.  **Prepare for Risks:** Generative AI can present many unique risks,
    such as IP leakage, reputational damage, and operational issues.
    Risk management strategies should be included in all phases of your
    AI plan.

7.  **Manage Data Effectively:** Ensure that your data management
    systems can support AI demands, including data quality, privacy, and
    security.

Watch this space for updates on service briefs that address these market
needs. For now, feel free to request an [AI Executive
Briefing](https://www.optiv.com/sites/default/files/2023-05/big-data-analytics-ai-executive-brief.pdf)
where we cover these topics and more in depth.

**Want AI? How’s your data?**

<https://www.wsj.com/articles/rush-to-use-generative-ai-pushes-companies-to-get-data-in-order-c34a7e13>

AI is all about data. Here’s a Wall Street Journal article describing
just that. The article describes several examples of companies working
on data to out-innovate competition with AI. Syneos Health’s data
journey was shared in the article. This included:

- Developing a corporate data management strategy for “managing,
  cleaning, and organizing all the data across the entire business.”

- Integrating data from operational systems, such as enterprise resource
  planning and clinical trial information, into a data lake.

- Spending 18 months preparing to train AI models by building “feature
  stores” based on data scientists and business domain expert insights.

- Now they’re releasing “Protocol Genius” tool which is build on
  OpenAI’s LLM models to search across 400,000 clinical protocols in a
  secure and innovative way

**Shadow IT is Increasing; Risks Too**

<https://www.csoonline.com/article/3698277/shadow-it-is-increasing-and-so-are-the-associated-security-risks.html>

Gartner found that 41% of employees acquired, modified, or created
technology outside of IT’s visibility in 2022. They expects that number
to climb to 75% by 2027. Shadow IT introduces major risks, including
data breaches, compliance violations, and loss of visibility and
control. Digital transformation, expansion of cloud services, and remote
work are all driving this trend. One topic this article doesn’t discuss:
Artificial Intelligence. I believe that estimates not including AI
should be revised up. AI makes it easier to build your own shadow IT. It
also accelerates capabilities for data breaches, compliance violations,
and loss of visibility and control. Organizations should adopt a
proactive approach to manage shadow IT (and AI) by identifying,
assessing, and securing it. They should also provide guidance for teams
about the rules for Shadow IT and the alternative, secure options to
solve their business problems.

**Nasty Zero Day Found in Popular MLOps System**

<https://protectai.com/blog/hacking-ai-system-takeover-in-mlflow-strikes-again-and-again>

Machine Learning Operations (MLOps) is the process by which AI/ML are
developed, deployed, managed, and monitored. It is a core function of
Machine Learning engineering that streamlines the model development
lifecycle from data ingestion to model production.
[MLFlow](https://mlflow.org/) is very popular open source tool to
facilitate MLOps. The vulnerability was discovered and patched weeks
ago, but it would allow for system and cloud takeover because the tool
could be exposed to the internet without authentication. No technology
is immune from zero days, but with many organizations rushing to adopt
AI capabilities vulnerabilities like this could become a larger issue.
And if the AI development is happening as a form of Shadow IT –
vulnerabilities like this could in your environment, running without the
latest update.

**2 Ways to Block AI and 1 Way to Use AI from Palo Alto**

| Firewall Settings                         | <https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/blog/2023/05/securing-and-managing-chatgpt-traffic/>                                                                                                 |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Enterprise DLP configuration              | <https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/enterprise-dlp/enterprise-dlp-admin/configure-enterprise-dlp/enterprise-dlp-and-ai-apps/how-enterprise-dlp-safeguards-against-chatgpt-data-leakage> |
| How to use ChatGPT within XSOAR Playbooks | <https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/blog/security-operations/using-chatgpt-in-cortex-xsoar/>                                                                                             |

**Lariar on AI – My Better Half Writing About AI in Search**

<https://media.monks.com/articles/how-ai-influencing-future-search>

Shameless spousal promotion. My wife has been working with Google and
Bing for years and seeing first-hand the AI developments that are going
into their flagship products. In this article she shares what the likely
impacts are in her industry where AI is accelerating some things and
introducing new risks.

**AI Will Save The World**

<https://a16z.com/2023/06/06/ai-will-save-the-world/>

This long essay by [Marc
Andreessen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marc_Andreessen) is worth a
read. Andreessen notably coined the phrase “[Software is eating the
world](https://a16z.com/2011/08/20/why-software-is-eating-the-world/)”
twelve years ago – and it has. For Andreessen the potential of
artificial intelligence (AI) to augment human intelligence and improve
life far outweighs the existential risks. He argues that AI is a tool
that can help us solve problems, create new knowledge, and enhance our
creativity. He gives examples of how AI can assist us in education,
health, law, art, and other domains. He also addresses some of the
common fears and misconceptions about AI, such as its impact on jobs,
ethics, and privacy. He concludes by urging us to embrace AI to make
everything we care about better.

In another hopeful (and shorter) story –amazing [software engineering
R&D](https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/06/07/1074184/google-deepmind-game-ai-alphadev-algorithm-code-faster/)
to speed up code using Google’s Deepmind AI.

**Errata: The Air Force Did Not Simulate a Drone Killing Its Operator**

<https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2023/06/air-force-denies-running-simulation-where-ai-drone-killed-its-operator/>

Oops. I got caught up sharing an article last week that fit a narrative
about AI running off the rails. It turns out there was significant human
error in the reporting. The Air Force now denies that the simulation
ever took place. The original source “misspoke” and the story went
viral. Perhaps more evidence in favor of Marc Andreessen’s thesis above.

**Have a Great Weekend!**

<img src="media/image1.png" style="width:4.26923in;height:2.07304in"
alt="Post image" />

This is not a recommended Security Use Case
([Source](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPT/comments/145hlws/to_all_the_people_out_there_who_think_chatgpt_can/))

***WTH is this email? (Recap)***

*Each week I get to talk with lots of clients, colleagues, and team
members about fascinating topics at the intersection of cybersecurity,
data, and AI. I’ve decided to share some of the fun. There’s so much
going on in this space that impacts all of us and our clients. It’s
exciting for me – and I hope you’ll be entertained too. I’ve opted you
in to this newsletter because we had a recent conversation about the Big
Data & Analytics practice – but feel free to shoot me a note to
unsubscribe. No hard feelings!*

*If you’ve been forwarded this email you can sign up by clicking*
[SUBSCRIBE](mailto:randy.lariar@optiv.com?subject=Send%20Me%20Big%20Data%20Emails%20Please!)*.
The archive can now be found at
[ARCHIVE](https://optiv.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/CloudServices-2023/ElYV6Gx5zZtBhAL7MSDkRcMBUlNEtgoiatB-ymUwq2vpPQ?e=0H127H)*

*Please reach out to [SIEM and Data](mailto:SIEMandData@optiv.com)
(<SIEMandData@optiv.com>) any time to discuss AI, Data, or any of the
SIEM technology questions your clients may have.*

*If you’re still reading down this far, reply back to share which AI
hype needs to be deconstructed next week!*
