Big Data & Analytics - Thinks and Links

**Happy Friday!**

Some of the more interesting AI news seems to come out on Friday‚Äôs
immediately after I hit send on this newsletter. That was the case last
week as OpenAI finally released the Plug-in and Web Search functionality
on top of ChatGPT that had been in limited beta previously. If you
haven‚Äôt checked in on the various chat services now would be a great
time to see how far they‚Äôve come. Let‚Äôs compare some prompts:

1)  ‚ÄúWhat was the Log4j vulnerability and how can I be sure I‚Äôve
    protected my environment?‚Äù ‚Äì how do the leading chat AI‚Äôs work with
    that now?

<img src="media/image1.png" style="width:4.60309in;height:4.91537in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - ChatGPT w GPT-4

<img src="media/image2.png" style="width:4.7413in;height:1.69897in"
alt="A picture containing text, font, screenshot Description automatically generated" />

Figure - Google Bard

<img src="media/image3.png" style="width:6.5in;height:2.57639in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - Bing Chat

**Winner:** ChatGPT

2)  ‚ÄúWhat is the latest research on the optimal architecture for Large
    Language Model based autonomous AI agents?‚Äù

<img src="media/image4.png" style="width:6.0092in;height:8.23697in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - ChatGPT + ScholarAI Plugin

<img src="media/image5.png" style="width:6.5in;height:5.46528in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure ‚Äì Bard

<img src="media/image6.png" style="width:6.5in;height:6.07361in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated" />

Figure - Bing

**Winner:** Bing ‚Äì provides both a variety of articles, and links to
explore

3)  ‚ÄúWhat are the five most interesting things to happen in AI and Cyber
    Security this week?‚Äù

<img src="media/image7.png" style="width:6.5in;height:3.45417in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - Google Bard... Mostly Fiction

<img src="media/image8.png" style="width:6.5in;height:4.31389in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - Bing Chat - Started strong, but then...

<img src="media/image9.png" style="width:6.5in;height:7.22847in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - ChatGPT Browsing GPT-4, keeping it real

<img src="media/image10.png" style="width:1.85445in;height:4.14827in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - ChatGPT Web Browsing Path

**Winner:** ChatGPT with browsing not only found new stories and
summarized them well, but it also knew its limits to avoid hallucinating
fake things.

This has been fun, but what‚Äôs the point? Even with web access, these
models are still highly unpredictable and often wrong. The launch of all
these formerly limited release applications is helpful to put context
around the AI hype. Ultimately it sees those of us in the information
gathering and distribution business are going to be safe from this
generation AI. (Every week I try to get it to write this newsletter. Not
today, AI!)

One final test for today:

<img src="media/image11.png" style="width:6.5in;height:3.57361in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with medium confidence" />

Figure - Bing Chat, nailed it

**10 Types of AI Attacks CISOs Should Track**

<https://www.darkreading.com/threat-intelligence/10-types-of-ai-attacks-cisos-should-track>

This is a carousel article, so I‚Äôve pulled out the headlines, so you
don‚Äôt have to click 11 times:

1.  AI Poisoning Attacks

2.  Weaponized Models

3.  Data Privacy Attacks

4.  Model Theft

5.  Sponge Attacks (Denial of service targeting AI‚Äôs hardware usage)

6.  Prompt Injection

7.  Evasion Attacks (bypass security / categorization controls)

8.  AI Generated Phishing

9.  Deepfake BECs

10. AI-Generated Malware and Vulnerability Discovery

But if you do click through there‚Äôs lots of detail and articles linked
within.

**UK Telecom Company to cut ~11,000 Jobs Due to AI**

<https://www.bbc.com/news/business-65631168>

BT announced it will cut up to 55,000 jobs by the end of the decade,
mostly in the UK, as it cuts costs and replaces staff with technologies
like AI. The company estimates about 1/5 of these cuts will be driven by
AI. Once existing build work is completed, BT believes they will not
need as many staff to maintain its networks.

**Apple Restricts ChatGPT and Microsoft CoPilot Use**

<https://www.wsj.com/articles/apple-restricts-use-of-chatgpt-joining-other-companies-wary-of-leaks-d44d7d34>

Apple is in the news for restricting use of some external AI tools.
They‚Äôre rapidly developing their own similar technology. It has
restricted the use of ChatGPT and other external AI tools for some
employees, while also warning them not to use Microsoft-owned GitHub‚Äôs
Copilot. Apple is also working on its own large language models and has
acquired several AI startups.

**OpenAI is working on an Open-Source Model**

<https://www.artisana.ai/articles/openai-readies-open-source-model-as-competition-intensifies>

As discussed in previous weeks of this newsletter, the Open Source
community is creating some impressive advances in LLM technology. OpenAI
will be contributing here as well and it should be interesting to see
how it compares.

**Deep Dive on Prompt Injection and Why Many Proposed Solutions Won‚Äôt
Work**

<https://simonwillison.net/2023/May/2/prompt-injection-explained/>

A lot to unpack here, but the summary is that Prompt Injection is a
serious vulnerability, and not one that can just be solved with better
hidden instructions (see the following article as an example). Instead,
the use of multiple LLMs potentially checking each other for Prompt
Injections may be a path forward. We are still in the Research and
Development of this concept, however, so please tread carefully in
Production.

**Microsoft Copilot‚Äôs Confidential Rules**

<https://twitter.com/marvinvonhagen/status/1657060506371346432>

Prompt injection reveals the rules behind the Copilot chat.

<img src="media/image12.jpeg" style="width:6.5in;height:5.15278in"
alt="Image" />

**Covered Extensively Elsewhere, but Obligatory AI CEO Testifies for
Congress & Asks for Regulation Link**

<https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2023/may/16/ceo-openai-chatgpt-ai-tech-regulations>

At the Senate judiciary committee hearing this week, OpenAI CEO Sam
Altman called for regulation of AI to enable its benefits while
minimizing its harms. He proposed licensing and testing requirements for
development and release of AI models, as well as allowing independent
auditors to examine the models before they are launched. He also argued
for a new regulatory agency for the technology, and for existing
frameworks like Section 230 to be re-examined. Altman's testimony was
well-received, and senators drew parallels between social media and
generative AI, and the lessons lawmakers had learned from the
government‚Äôs failure to act on regulating social platforms. This hearing
is just the first step in understanding the technology, and its
potential risks and rewards.

**Have a Great Weekend!**

<img src="media/image13.jpeg" style="width:4.0283in;height:3.02286in"
alt="ü§ñ 22 Best AI memes for 2023 (AI memes created by humans) | Engati" />

***WTH is this email? (Recap)***

*Each week I get to talk with lots of clients, colleagues, and team
members about fascinating topics at the intersection of cybersecurity,
data, and AI. I‚Äôve decided to share some of the fun. There‚Äôs so much
going on in this space that impacts all of us and our clients. It‚Äôs
exciting for me ‚Äì and I hope you‚Äôll be entertained too. I‚Äôve opted you
in to this newsletter because we had a recent conversation about the Big
Data & Analytics practice ‚Äì but feel free to shoot me a note to
unsubscribe. No hard feelings!*

*If you‚Äôve been forwarded this email you can sign up by clicking*
[SUBSCRIBE](mailto:randy.lariar@optiv.com?subject=Send%20Me%20Big%20Data%20Emails%20Please!)*.
The archive can now be found at
[ARCHIVE](https://optiv.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/CloudServices-2023/ElYV6Gx5zZtBhAL7MSDkRcMBUlNEtgoiatB-ymUwq2vpPQ?e=0H127H)*

*Please reach out to [SIEM and Data](mailto:SIEMandData@optiv.com)
(<SIEMandData@optiv.com>) any time to discuss AI, Data, or any of the
SIEM technology questions your clients may have.*
