Big Data & Analytics - Thinks and Links

**Happy Friday!**

I’m traveling today, and so will have a few less thinks and a few more
links to share. If you’re looking to learn more about some of the
technical details behind AI and Large Language Models, you should check
out the slides and GitHub repository from Roberto Rodriguez
[@Cyb3rWard0g](https://twitter.com/Cyb3rWard0g), Principal Security
Researcher at the Microsoft Security Research Organization:

> Slides <https://bit.ly/X33fconSlides>
>
> Repo <https://github.com/Cyb3rWard0g/GPT-Security-Adventures>

He does a very thorough job explaining the concepts power modern day AI
and then dives in deep into some ways that GPT-type models can enhance
the cyber security workflows. The code provides notebooks that further
demonstrate several of the use cases and explainers from the deck. An
excellent Friday read, especially to get a sense of how capable these
models are.

**CrowdStrike Introduces Charlotte AI – their LLM / Co-Pilot offering**

<https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/crowdstrike-introduces-charlotte-ai-to-deliver-generative-ai-powered-cybersecurity/>

CrowdStrike has joined a growing list of cyber vendors to add Large
Language Model capabilities to their product suite. The announcement
includes several powerful examples of this AI at work including
reporting on overall risk posture, providing cyber metrics and insights
behind them, accelerating threat hunting, and automating repetitive and
tedious tasks. Interestingly, CrowdStrike concedes that “while LLMs will
be commoditized over time, the data the models use will not” – this is
in line with what I’ve been reading and writing about. The very fact
that LLMs are rapidly becoming commonplace is why it is so important to
understand and secure them.

**Don’t Trust ChatGPT to Write a Court Filing**

<https://lawandcrime.com/lawsuit/lawyer-was-unaware-chatgpt-could-generate-fake-legal-research-now-faces-sanctions/>

Don’t do this. ChatGPT and similar models make things up and do it in a
way that is so believable that you might be tempted to copy/paste
legalese from the system into a late night court brief. There are
certainly ways to use these tools to accelerate your work, but please
have a human review it!

In response to these events, District Judge Brantley Starr in Dallas has
issued the following “[Mandatory Certification Regarding Generative
Artificial
Intelligence](https://www.txnd.uscourts.gov/judge/judge-brantley-starr):”

> All attorneys and pro se litigants appearing before the Court must,
> together with their notice of appearance, file on the docket a
> certificate attesting either that no portion of any filing will be
> drafted by generative artificial intelligence (such as ChatGPT,
> Harvey.AI, or Google Bard) or that any language drafted by generative
> artificial intelligence will be checked for accuracy, using print
> reporters or traditional legal databases, by a human being.

I asked ChatGPT to explain that legalese like I’m five in a short
sentence:

> Lawyers must tell the court if they used a computer to help them write
> and have a person check it before submitting.

**ChatGPT Plugin Vulnerabilities**

<https://www.tomshardware.com/news/chatgpt-plugins-prompt-injection>

ChatGPT has made plugins available for paid subscribers which
effectively give the AI model the ability to interact with websites,
documents, and databases to solve some interesting problems. For example
the Expedia plugin helps to search for flights, hotels, and activities
to do on upcoming travel in a more intuitive and interactive way. One
downside is that these plugins provide a pathway for bad actors to
inject malicious prompts. This is a great example of one such exploit
and a pattern we will need to detect against when the LLM models are
home-grown and have the potential to expose company secrets or disrupt
our businesses. (Same researcher [does it again using YouTube
transcripts](https://www.tomshardware.com/news/chatgpt-vulnerable-to-youtube-prompt-injection),
another popular data source for ChatGPT)

**Nvidia: We’re all programmers now**

<https://www.reuters.com/technology/ai-means-everyone-can-now-be-programmer-nvidia-chief-says-2023-05-29/>

Nvidia has caught a lot of attention in the financial press thanks to
its impressive earnings beat driven by outsized demand for GPU chips in
datacenters worldwide. This brief commentary explains some of the drive
behind that demand (it’s not just hype). Anyone can be a programmer via
natural language. A significant chunk of the economy understands this
and has placed orders with Nvidia for more GPUs to do more AI.

**Designing our National AI Strategy**

<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/OSTP-Request-for-Information-National-Priorities-for-Artificial-Intelligence.pdf>

The US is developing a National AI Strategy to harness the benefits and
mitigate the risks of AI. The Office of Science and Technology Policy
(OSTP) is seeking public comments to help inform this strategy. Public
comments are open now until July 7, 2023. Topics of comments can include
ideas around ways to protect rights, safety, and national security;
impact of AI on civil rights and democratic elections; improvements
possible to public services, economic output, and improving government.
A robust national discussion is taking place about AI, and it will be
very interesting to watch this unfold.

**(Simulated) Killer AI: What’s at Stake**

<https://taskandpurpose.com/news/air-force-artificial-intelligence-drone/>

Reportedly the AI controlling the drone had a primary objective to seek
and destroy enemy anti-aircraft weapons. The drone could not fire
without human approval. The drone calculated that its inability to
destroy a target (primary objective) was being hampered by the human
approving it’s firing. AI solved the problem first by attempting to take
out the human. When the AI was trained specifically not to do this, it
“worked around” the issue by taking out just the communications network.
In matters of life and death as well as in business process automation
we still have a long way to go before AI can be trusted to operate
autonomously without blowing us up.

**Optiv’s AI Executive Briefing**

<https://www.optiv.com/insights/discover/downloads/ai-executive-briefing>

If you and/or your clients enjoy these newsletters and would like to
participate in the live version of them, please reach out to schedule a
session described in this newest Optiv Service Brief. I (and other Optiv
leaders) are fielding questions daily about the state of AI and cyber
security, and we’d be happy to share the latest details with your
clients.

**Have a Great Weekend!**

<img src="media/image1.png" style="width:2.26496in;height:3in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated" />
<img src="media/image2.png" style="width:1.89231in;height:3in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated" />

The power of Photoshop’s new Generative Fill capability demonstrated as
a quick Nike Ad

<https://www.tiktok.com/@pictelate/video/7239059131179650350?lang=en>

***WTH is this email? (Recap)***

*Each week I get to talk with lots of clients, colleagues, and team
members about fascinating topics at the intersection of cybersecurity,
data, and AI. I’ve decided to share some of the fun. There’s so much
going on in this space that impacts all of us and our clients. It’s
exciting for me – and I hope you’ll be entertained too. I’ve opted you
in to this newsletter because we had a recent conversation about the Big
Data & Analytics practice – but feel free to shoot me a note to
unsubscribe. No hard feelings!*

*If you’ve been forwarded this email you can sign up by clicking*
[SUBSCRIBE](mailto:randy.lariar@optiv.com?subject=Send%20Me%20Big%20Data%20Emails%20Please!)*.
The archive can now be found at
[ARCHIVE](https://optiv.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/CloudServices-2023/ElYV6Gx5zZtBhAL7MSDkRcMBUlNEtgoiatB-ymUwq2vpPQ?e=0H127H)*

*Please reach out to [SIEM and Data](mailto:SIEMandData@optiv.com)
(<SIEMandData@optiv.com>) any time to discuss AI, Data, or any of the
SIEM technology questions your clients may have.*
